called Yemen Affairs in the Red
Sea the American enemy shall bear the
consequences of this crime their
military movement in the Red Sea to
protect Israeli ships will not prevent
Yemen from carrying out its religious
humanitarian and ethical duty to support
the people of Gaza we call upon all
countries not to follow this dangerous
path of the US the consequences of which
will touch everyone on another note with
the grace of God our yeni forces were
successful in performing an operation in
targeting a container ship that was
heading to Israel as a consequence of
the crew not responding to our
warning okay for more on this it's cross
to Russell SAR who joins us from
Djibouti and uh as we've heard tension
really is rising can you just tell us
about the latest
escalations indeed the tension is rising
and Rising here particularly after the
US uh killed 10 members of hthis in the
Red Sea this was the first time since
the beginning of the escalation in the
Red Sea we have seen killings and right
after that who his statement says that
the US full uh Bears the full
responsibility and the consequences so
on top of that the defense secretary of
UK Grant shabs says that UK is ready to
take further action and is ready to to
to take the direct actions against the
houthis in the region and he also says
that the uh the the the continued Ry
aggression is uh is is risking
miscalculations and also escalation
which Co trigger a region wide conflict
so then the deputy foreign minister of
huis say that the yemeni blood has been
has been shed and it's not wasted its
price is quite high so now more and more
we're seeing a threat language is
dominating the situation here and and
more and more militarization is taking
place so there are now the
concerns at that that as there are no
almost diplomatic talks what will be the
way out of this
crisis okay brist given the tension like
you mentioned there must be growing
concerns of this uh conflict
spreading indeed now the USA is is is
increasing his Nal Pres here the UK is
sending more warships and other
countries not under the Coalition that
was formed by the USA are also sending
some of the the warships here to protect
the wessels so there's a huge
militarization here on the other side
hthis saying that they are going to
retaliate and they're not going to stop
attacking the wessels that are linked to
Israel until Israel stops killing in
Gaza so it seems to be like a deadlock
here so far we have seen that USA
remained in a defensive position and now
there are some of the considerations
particularly after this threat language
coming from both parties feeling the
crisis here there are concerns that the
USA could change its position from a
defensive one to an offensive one and if
that happens so the concerns here is
that it's going to be a wider region and
people here particularly the authorities
in these Regional countries around this
part of the world they're saying that if
the us or the UK start to tet H is not
only in Yemen but in not only in RI but
in Yemen as well that could trigger a
full fledge war that could ravage the
the region okay thank you so much for
that update that is wrestle soda for us
in jouti